[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: We did a little
bit of hacking on Express.
Now we're gonna move into a part of
the stack that we've already been using.
But we're gonna try to dive
in a little bit to understand
better how these things work and
what they can do for us.
We've been executing these commands,
these migration commands,
these Grunt commands and
these are provided by some of the build
tooling that we have in this project.
Now, build tooling, there's a lot
of different choices out there,
but the two that I keep coming
back to are npm scripts and Grunt.
And Grunt tasks in general.
And I'll kinda take you through
what each of these things do.
So npm scripts are commands that
you register in the package.json
of your node project and
can execute arbitrary shell commands.
So it's essentially
like adding aliases for
commands that you could run
from the command line yourself.
However there is a couple things
that you that you get for
free when you do an npm script like this.
Probably the most notable one is that
if you have npm installed locally,
any modules which should
be command line utilities,
that have some kind of
command line option.
Those utilities will be added
to your system path when
you run a script through an npm script.
And we'll see what we mean
by that here in a moment.
It's also a conventional way of
interacting with node projects.
So the npm defines a set of,
I don't know, about 15 different
scripts that it sort of expects to
possibly be present in a package.json.
There's an npm start, an npm test,
an npm after install.
There's a few like lifecycle hooks and
other bits that npm will sort
of conventionally expect to possibly
be present in a package.json.
So by conforming to that convention,
another node developer who may or
may not have ever seen your
project before knows well,
if I execute npm start probably
something is supposed to happen.
And in fact lots of platform
as a service providers,
including Elastic Beanstalk
which is the bit that
we'll be using later on this afternoon,
will look for that npm start script as
the primary way to kick off your
node js web application process.
So, having these npm scripts
is usually a good idea anyway.
Then, the other one that I use is Grunt.
And I'm already seeing some questions in
the chat about you know Grunt over Gulp or
whatever and
we'll talk about some of the conventions.
I think it largely does
come down to preference.
Gulp in some scenarios performs really,
really well, so that's really great.
Webpack you can actually use with Grunt,
and
it's really good at doing
a subset of frontendy stuff.
So there's lots of different
choices out there, but
the reason why I kind of stick with
Grunt is the mature plugin ecosystem.
There's a ton of plugins out there that
do 99% of the things that I wanna do.
And it's better than other
solutions out there,
I think,
at like synchronously orchestrating tasks.
If you wanna do this,
then this, then this, or
do a couple thing concurrently and
then another thing.
Grunt to makes that easiest.
And there are other tools out there that
all that stuff is still totally possible,
but the code becomes, for
at least my simple brain,
possibly a little bit more confusing.
There are lots of people out
there in fact like Lloyd who
lives here in town in the Twin Cities
does node dev ops for Walmart.
And for
most of their orchestrations stuff,
his weapon of choice is bash scripts.
They just have a ton of really bad ass
bash scripts which run all of their
deployments and do all that stuff.
So ultimately,
it comes down to preference.
But the thing that I think Grunt helps
with over just pure bash scripts and
npm scripts is orchestrating and
building tasks that work together.